		     Internet Software Consortium
	      Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol Server
			    Beta Release 1
			    March 16, 1996

This is the first Beta release of the Internet Software Consortium
DHCP Server (ISC dhcpd).  In this Beta release, support for the core
DHCP protocol is provided.  BOOTP support is also provided for
backwards compatibility.  The beta release currently runs on NetBSD
and BSD/OS, and may run on Ultrix.  It should port fairly easily to a
variety of UNIX-like systems.

The default Makefile is a 4.4BSD-style makefile.   If you do not have
access to a 4.4BSD-style make, use Makefile.std.   This is an
old-style makefile and should work on most systems.

If you want to attempt a port, the first thing to do is to make a copy
of one of the header files in cf/ for your system and hack the
variables you find there as needed.   Hack osdep.h to conditionally
include your header file when compiling on your system.   This process
is by no means self-explanatory at this point - it will get better as
dhcpd matures.   If you are building on BSD/os or NetBSD, just type
make - it should build with no problem.

In February, I brought ISC dhcpd to Connectathon and worked out
many bugs.  ISC dhcpd was able to boot all of the DHCP clients at
Connectathon by the time I left.  Many thanks to Audrey Van Belleghem
for getting me in to Connectathon even though we weren't able to
budget for it, to Mike Carney for running the DHCP testing in
general and helping me out in particular, and to all the other DHCP
Bakeoff participants at Connectathon who tried their clients against
dhcpd and told me where it was busted, or, later on, that it wasn't
busted anymore.

			      DEBUGGING

dhcpd logs to LOG_DAEMON.   Depending on the logging level that you
choose with syslog, you can get quite a bit of information about what
dhcpd is doing.   To get the most logging, put the following in your
/etc/syslog.conf file and restart syslog:

daemon.debug:	/var/log/daemon.log

(obviously, change the filename to suit your taste).

This change may have the unfortunate side effect of capturing a lot of
information from daemons other than dhcpd that you don't want to look
at.

You can also compile dhcpd with ``make DEBUG="-g -DDEBUG"''.  If you
do this, dhcpd will run in the foreground rather than as a daemon, and
will print its log messages to standard error.  It will also dump the
contents of all packets it receives and sends.

			       SUPPORT

ISC DHCPD is not a commercial product, and is not supported in that sense.
However, I am continuing to work on this server with the support of the
Internet Software Consortium, so if you have trouble or want help, please
free free to contact me, Ted Lemon <mellon@fugue.com>.

In addition, there are two mailing lists for dhcpd - dhcpd-announce and
dhcpd-users.   To subscribe, see http://www.fugue.com/dhcp/lists.   If you
don't have WWW access, you can send mail to dhcpd-request@fugue.com and
tell me which lists you want to subscribe to, but please use the web interface
if you can, since I have to handle the -request mailing list manually.


				 BUGS

Currently, ISC dhcpd supports the DHCP protocol strictly the standard
Berkeley socket interface to UDP/IP.  This makes it very portable, but
has several drawbacks.  First of all, it is impossible to identify the
interface on which a DHCP request was received.  As a consequence,
dhcpd currently exits if it discovers that it's running on a machine
with more than one network address.

Secondly, it is difficult to send a broadcast to the all-ones IP
broadcast address as required by the DHCP protocol.  I have had some
luck on 4.4BSD-based systems declaring a route to 255.255.255.255
through the local IP address, and have also found that some clients
will accept broadcasts from the local subnet broadcast address.  I
would be interested in hearing about your experiences with this.

A socket interface abstraction which can be layered atop sun's NIT or
the Berkeley Packet Filter will be included in the next beta release,
but probably won't work on as many systems.   On those systems where
it works, though, it will solve both the multiple interface problem
and the all-ones broadcast problem.

This release of dhcpd does not contain support for DHCPINFORM.
Support for DHCPINFORM will be present in the next release.
DHCPINFORM is somewhat tangential to the main purpose of the DHCP
protocol, so this probably won't be a major problem for most users.

The man page for dhcpd.leases is not yet ready.

The system is painful to configure.   I will try to get GNU configure
going in the next release.

